docs(android): Add SQLiteDriver support to SQLite docs (#18489)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/android/integrations/room-and-sqlite/index.mdx

---

> title: SQLite

Reviewer: nit: the URL at the top is still `docs/platforms/android/integrations/room-and-sqlite/index.mdx`
Did you want to change that too? might require fixing all links as well.

Author: Good callout, but leaving as-is for now. I don't want to mess with others' URLs, and updating would mean creating redirects + updating inbound links + more.

categories:
  - mobile
og_image: /og-images/platforms-android-integrations-room-and-sqlite.png
---

The `sentry-android-sqlite` library generates spans for your SQLite queries, whether you use [Room](https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage/room/), [SQLDelight](https://sqldelight.github.io/sqldelight/), or another persistence library. It does so by wrapping your existing `SQLiteDriver` or `SupportSQLiteOpenHelper`.

If you're using the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin, wrapping is performed automatically. (See [Auto-Instrumentation](#auto-instrumentation) for more details.)

Room users can also take advantage of our [auto-instrumentation of DAO methods](#room-dao-methods).

<Alert>

Check out our [migration advice](#migrating-from-supportsqliteopenhelper-to-sqlitedriver) if you're migrating from `SupportSQLiteOpenHelper` to `SQLiteDriver`.

Spans require [tracing to be enabled](/platforms/android/tracing/#configure-the-sample-rate).

</Alert>

## Auto-Instrumentation

### Install

The [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) (SAGP) uses bytecode manipulation to automatically wrap your driver and/or open helper.<sup>†</sup>

> To use the SAGP, apply it alongside the Sentry Android SDK:

Reviewer: Apply SAGP also involves configuring the DSN and/or auth tokens. I think we should avoid explaining any steps and instead defer to the linked install instructions

Author: Good thinking – removed in e6ae0d43c11f53de16dac5219bf5bc0a9d12bcfe and pointed to the plugin installation instructions instead.

```groovy {filename:build.gradle}
plugins {
  id "io.sentry.android.gradle" version "{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '6.13.0') }}"
}

dependencies {

>   implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android', '8.45.0') }}'

Reviewer: I know this was already in the previous diff but without any other configuration, this line is redundant since auto install will add this dependency. Having it here might confuse people into thinking this is a necessary step for auto-instrumentation.

Author: Removed in e6ae0d43c11f53de16dac5219bf5bc0a9d12bcfe.

}
```

```kotlin {filename:build.gradle.kts}
dependencies {
  implementation("io.sentry:sentry-android:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android', '8.45.0') }}")
  implementation("io.sentry:sentry-android-sqlite:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.sqlite', '8.45.0') }}")
}
```

The `sentry-android-sqlite` artifact ships both wrappers; the minimum version depends on which API you need to wrap:

| API                       | Minimum `sentry-android-sqlite` version |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `SQLiteDriver`            | `≥8.45.0`                               |
| `SupportSQLiteOpenHelper` | `≥6.21.0`                               |

### Configure

Wrap your driver or open helper directly with `SentrySQLiteDriver.create(...)` or `SentrySupportSQLiteOpenHelper.create(...)`. Use the wrapped instance wherever you would have used the unwrapped one. For most teams, that means wiring it into Room or SQLDelight:

#### Room

```kotlin {tabTitle:SQLiteDriver} {mdExpandTabs}
import androidx.room.Room
import androidx.sqlite.driver.AndroidSQLiteDriver

> import io.sentry.sqlite.SentrySQLiteDriver

Author: This is the right package. (We repackaged for KMP purposes.)

}
```

Disabling `DATABASE` instrumentation disables `SQLiteDriver` wrapping, `SupportSQLiteOpenHelper` wrapping, and Room DAO spans.

See our [Gradle](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) page for other SAGP configuration options.

## Manual Instrumentation

### Install

> If you don't use the SAGP, you can always wrap your driver or open helper by hand. Add the Sentry Android SDK and the `sentry-android-sqlite` artifact:

Reviewer: nit: Just my 2 cents "by hand" might be lost on international audiences.
```suggestion
If you don't use the SAGP, you can always wrap your driver or open helper explicitly. Add the Sentry Android SDK and the `sentry-android-sqlite` artifact:
```

Author: Updated in e6ae0d43c11f53de16dac5219bf5bc0a9d12bcfe.
